<!DOCTYPE html SYSTEM "/wow/WOWstandard/xhtml-wowext-1.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<object data="../header.xhtml" type="text/wow">
<p>
<b>Warning:</b>
If you see this text it means you are not viewing the page through
the WOW! system.
</p>
</object>

<h2>The Graph Author ".author" Files</h2>

<p>
The ".author" files are used by the graph author to decide how to draw
concept relationships of a given type.
We explain the templates using the examples of <em>knowledge_propagation</em>
and <em>interest</em>.
</p>
<p>
The file "knowledge_propagation.author" is as follows:
<pre>
&lt;?xml version="1.0"?&gt;
&lt;!DOCTYPE author_relation_type SYSTEM 'author_relation_type.dtd'&gt;
&lt;author_relation_type&gt;
    &lt;name&gt;knowledge_propagation&lt;/name&gt;
    &lt;color&gt;none&lt;/color&gt;
    &lt;style&gt;none&lt;/style&gt;
    &lt;properties acyclic="false" concept_hierarchy="true" /&gt;
&lt;/author_relation_type&gt;
</pre>
The file "interest.author" is:
<pre>
&lt;?xml version="1.0"?&gt;
&lt;!DOCTYPE author_relation_type SYSTEM 'author_relation_type.dtd'&gt;
&lt;author_relation_type&gt;
    &lt;name&gt;interest&lt;/name&gt;
    &lt;color&gt;blue&lt;/color&gt;
    &lt;style&gt;full&lt;/style&gt;
    &lt;properties acyclic="false" />
&lt;/author_relation_type>
</pre>
</p>
The meaning of the different tags is as follows:
<ul>
<li>
<b>name</b>: This is the name of the concept relationship type,
as it will be shown by the graph author. To avoid confusion you should
keep this name the same as the filename (without suffix).
</li>
<li>
<b>color</b>: This is the color used to draw arrows for relationships
of this type. For knowledge_propagation the color is "none" because
knowledge_propagation is not drawn. Other relationship types
do have a color which can be
black, blue, cyan, gray, green, magenta, red, or yellow.
</li>
<li>
<b>style</b>: This is the drawing style for the arrows. The style is "none"
for knowledge_propagation because knowledge_propagation is not drawn.
Possible styles are full, dashed and dotted.
</li>
<li>
<b>properties</b>: indicates properties of the relationships or the graph
of relationships of this type.
<ul>
<li>
<b>acyclic</b>: Can be true or false. (But in the case of false it is omitted.)
This means that the graph formed by relationships of this
type must be acyclic (or not).
Cyclic relationships can potentially lead to infinite loops
(but so can combinations of relationships of different types that
each are acyclic but in combination become cyclic.)
</li>
<li>
<b>concept_hierarchy</b>: Can be true or false.
(Again, in case of false the property can be omitted.)
This means that this type of relationship coincides with the
concept hierarchy. This is true for knowledge_propagation.
The graph author shows the concept hierarchy in the left frame,
which looks somewhat like a windows explorer tree.
Relationships of other types are shown in the right frame using a graph.
</li>
<li>
<b>unary</b>: Can be true or false.
(Again, in case of false the property can be omitted.)
A unary relationship involves only one concept.
Other relationships are binary and have a "source" and "destination",
or alternatively a "parent" and "child".
</li>
</ul>
</li>
</ul>


<object data="../footer.xhtml" type="text/wow">
<p>
<b>Warning:</b>
If you see this text it means you are not viewing the page through
the WOW! system.
</p>
</object>
</html>
