<!DOCTYPE html SYSTEM "/wow/WOWstandard/xhtml-wowext-1.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<object data="../header.xhtml" type="text/wow">
<p>
<b>Warning:</b>
If you see this text it means you are not viewing the page through
the WOW! system.
</p>
</object>

<h2>Building (Compiling) WOW!</h2>

<p>
The WOW! distribution contains the <i>source</i> of WOW!,
not the <i>binaries</i>. Since the
<a href="environment" class="conditional">software environment</a>
that is needed to run WOW! includes the Java SDK it includes
everything you need in order to build the WOW! binaries. Being able to
run the build script is a good check that your Java environment
is set up correctly.
</p>
<ul>
<li>
Windows users need to open a command window (also known as
a "DOS box"). You change directory to the "build" directory
(subdirectory of the directory you placed the WOW! distribution in).
There is a batch command "bw" (file bw.bat) that compiles and
installs everything. (It does not create any files outside the
WOW! distribution directory.)
</li>
<li>
Linux users need to open a shell window.
You also change directory to the "build" directory
(subdirectory of the directory you placed the WOW! distribution in).
There is shell script "bl" that compiles and
installs everything. (It does not create any files outside the
WOW! distribution directory.)
</li>
</ul>
<p>
It is not possible for us to foresee all the possible problems
you might have in compiling WOW!, but if your Java environment
is installed properly there should not be any fatal compiler
errors, and the build script should result in the creation of
an wow.jar file that contains all the server-side code.
Any errors or problems you might have are most likely a matter
of finding the correct libraries in the correct place.
</p>
<object data="../footer.xhtml" type="text/wow">
<p>
<b>Warning:</b>
If you see this text it means you are not viewing the page through
the WOW! system.
</p>
</object>
</html>
