<!DOCTYPE html SYSTEM "/wow/WOWstandard/xhtml-wowext-1.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<object data="../header.xhtml" type="text/wow">
<p>
<b>Warning:</b>
If you see this text it means you are not viewing the page through
the WOW! system.
</p>
</object>

<h2>Contributing to the WOW! Project</h2>

<p>
By using WOW! you are already contributing to the WOW! project,
for which we are grateful. However, there is more you can do:
</p>

<ul>
<li>
When you decide to create an application based on WOW!,
please let us know. We would like not just to know who is using WOW!,
but also which types of applications are created using it.
</li>
<li>
When you use WOW! and publish about your work, please acknowledge
the use of WOW! in your publications in order to spread the word
that this free adaptive framework is available for everyone.
</li>
<li>
If you have difficulties realizing the application you want using
WOW!, please let us know about the features you think would make the
realization of your application easier. We can always use good ideas.
</li>
<li>
Although WOW! comes ready to be used it includes the source code
for all the parts developed by the WOW! team.
You are free to change WOW! to suit your needs.
But please let us know, and contribute your developments back
to the WOW! team, so that we can continue to extend and improve WOW!.
</li>
<li>
If you wish to contribute by spending some time at the WOW! site
in Eindhoven, the Netherlands, please let us know. We can accomodate
visitors (interns, masters students, sabbaticals), and offer
affordable temporary housing. In general however, we cannot
offer remuneration for contributions, except when we have research
and development grants. WOW! is available for free
to everyone and available in Open Source and we want to keep it that way.
</li>
</ul>

<object data="../footer.xhtml" type="text/wow">
<p>
<b>Warning:</b>
If you see this text it means you are not viewing the page through
the WOW! system.
</p>
</object>
</html>
