<!DOCTYPE html SYSTEM "/wow/WOWstandard/xhtml-wowext-1.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">

<object data="../header.xhtml" type="text/wow">
<p>
<b>Warning:</b>
If you see this text it means you are not viewing the page through
the WOW! system.
</p>
</object>

<h2>Defining Layout of the Application</h2>
<p>Most adaptive applications do not only show pages with links,
but have some additional structures, like the "menu" you see on the left
in this tutorial. Each WOW! application defines its own look and feel.
This consists of a definition of <em>layout</em>, consisting of html
frames and which information goes into which frame,
and a specification of concept presentation. </p>
<p>All this is specified with the help of the following files:</p>
<ul>
  <li>Layoutconfig.xml</li>
  <li>ConceptTypeConfig.xml</li>
  <li>header.xhtml (or/and) footer.xhtml (OPTIONAL)</li>
</ul>
<p>You can create your own definitions for layout or use
the existing definitions provided with the system.
To use the ones provided with system, copy the above given files
from <em>/wow/tutorial</em> to <em>/wow/example</em> and change
every occurence of the word 'tutorial' with 'example'.</p>
<p>For further reference see the corresponding page of the tutorial:
<a href="layout" class="conditional">The Layout of an WOW! Application</a>.</p>
<p>Note: We will also need a login page and a registration page
for our application. We can also copy these from the directory
<em>/wow/tutorial</em> and modify them for our use (changing at least
every occurence of "tutorial" into "example").</p>
<object data="../footer.xhtml" type="text/wow">
<p>
<b>Warning:</b>
If you see this text it means you are not viewing the page through
the WOW! system.
</p>
</object>
</html>
