<!DOCTYPE html SYSTEM "/wow/WOWstandard/xhtml-wowext-1.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<object data="../header.xhtml" type="text/wow">
<p>
<b>Warning:</b>
If you see this text it means you are not viewing the page through
the WOW! system.
</p>
</object>

<h2>Advanced Topics for System Designers and Server Managers</h2>

<p>
Authoring for WOW! can be done by editing concept relationships
through the <a href="graphauthor" class="conditional">graph author</a>.
When the graph author seems too restricted you can choose to
edit the <a href="concepts" class="conditional">concept structure</a>
and <a href="rules" class="conditional">event-condition-action rules</a>
through the
<a href="concepteditor" class="conditional">concept editor</a>
or to edit the concepts and rules directly in the corresponding XML file.
However, the functionality of the graph author can be stretched
by <a href="templates" class="conditional">creating new templates</a>
for concept relationship types and/or changing existing ones.
</p>

<p>
Another potential advanced aspect is the performance.
When the performance of an WOW! server is too low there are several
ways to try to improve it by changing the
<a href="wowconfig" class="conditional">WOW! configuration</a>:
</p>
<ul>
<li>
When using XML files instead of the mySQL database performance
can be increased by moving the directory tree with the files to
a separate disk (through the XMLROOT parameter). Note that moving
the files to a different file system on the same disk does not help.
</li>
<li>
When using database server one can move the database to a different machine
than the one running the WOW! server,
and change the "dbhost" parameter to refer to that machine.
</li>
</ul>

<object data="../footer.xhtml" type="text/wow">
<p>
<b>Warning:</b>
If you see this text it means you are not viewing the page through
the WOW! system.
</p>
</object>
</html>
