<!DOCTYPE html SYSTEM "/wow/WOWstandard/xhtml-wowext-1.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<object data="../header.xhtml" type="text/wow">
<p>
<b>Warning:</b>
If you see this text it means you are not viewing the page through
the WOW! system.
</p>
</object>

<h2>Draw the Concept Relationships </h2>
<p>The next most important step  is to draw the various concept relationships.<br />
For our example purposes, we will be basically using the "prerequisite"
relationship. </p>
<ul>
  <li>The blank space which we see in the right of the
<a href="/wow/tutorial/images/graphauthor_new.gif" target="_blank"
class="unconditional">concept heirarchy</a> is called the
"<a href="/wow/tutorial/images/graphauthor_new.gif" target="_blank" class="unconditional">graph window</a>".
Concepts can be dragged to the "graph window" in order to include them
in a concept relationship.
<a href="concepts.xhtml" class="conditional">Concepts</a> in the "graph window"
can be dragged to any location to make the graph more pleasing.
To drag a concept inside the "graph window" you should <em>not</em>
click exactly on the center of the rectangle representing the concept.</li>
</ul>
<p>This <a href="/wow/tutorial/images/graphexample2.gif"
target="_blank" class="unconditional">screendump</a> shows what the
graph window looks like after we have dragged all the concepts
of our example. </p>
<ul>
  <li>A relationship is created of the current type, so the type should
be selected first, before you draw the relationship.
Select the "prerequisite" type as shown
<a href="/wow/tutorial/images/crtlist.gif" target="_blank" class="unconditional">here</a>.
  </li>
  <li>To draw concept relationships you must start by clicking in the center
of the rectangle and then dragging an arrow to the destination of
the relationship. <br />
    Drawing an arrow from A to B means that "A is a prerequisite for B".
This means that it is advisable to read A before B. <br />
    In our example we have following prerequisites
      <ul>
        <li>"welcome" is a prerequisite for "history", "basic", "advanced" and "final"</li>
          <li>"basic" is a prerequisite for "advanced", "final", "advanced" and all its children ("document", "lists", "textstructure").</li>
          <li>"advanced" is a prerequisite for "final", and all its children ("special", "anchors").</li>
      </ul>
  </li>
</ul>
<p>This is what our <a href="/wow/tutorial/images/graphexample.gif"
target="_blank" class="unconditional">graph window</a> looks like after we have drawn all the relationships. </p>
<p>Note : The structure of composition of concepts must be a hierarchy,
or a directed acyclic graph. No concept can thus be a descendent
of itself either directly or indirectly.</p>

<object name="tutorial.crtlistreview" type="text/wow"/>

<object data="../footer.xhtml" type="text/wow">
<p>
<b>Warning:</b>
If you see this text it means you are not viewing the page through
the WOW! system.
</p>
</object>
</html>
