<!DOCTYPE html SYSTEM "/wow/WOWstandard/xhtml-wowext-1.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<object data="../header.xhtml" type="text/wow">
<p>
<b>Warning:</b>
If you see this text it means you are not viewing the page through
the WOW! system.
</p>
</object>

<h2>WOW! for End-Users</h2>

<p>
As an end-user there are only a few things you have to know
about the WOW! system. How the adaptation works in an application
largely depends on the
<object name="tutorial.adaptationrule" type="text/wow" />
<a href="rules" class="conditional">rules</a>
an author creates, so we concentrate
here on aspects that are application independent.
</p>

<ul>
<li>
In order for WOW! to perform adaptation each user must be known
through a unique <em>identity</em>, which is chosen in the
registration form. Anonymous users are assigned a unique
randomly chosen identity. That identity is remembered by the
browser through the "cookie" mechanism. You can restart an
anonymous session only from the same machine using the same browser.
Non-anonymous (normal) users have a <em>password</em> to prevent
unauthorized use of their login. An application may offer a
form (called "password" in this tutorial) to let you change the password.
</li>
<li>
One WOW! server can contain several applications. You can reuse
your identity when you go from one application to another.
You can also return to the first application or go back and forth.
However, you should not try to use two applications simultaneously
from different browsers or browser windows, because WOW! maintains
only one session per user at a time. Using multiple applications
simultaneously can lead to unexpected results (like the name of
one application being displayed in the other application,
or the wrong background image on pages).
</li>
<li>
WOW! registers every page access (every click on a link anchor).
A set of
<object name="tutorial.adaptationrule" type="text/wow" />
<a href="rules" class="conditional">rules</a>
(written by the author, possibly through authoring tools) determines how a
<a href="usermodel" class="conditional">user model</a> is updated.
This user model consists of
<em>concepts</em> with <em>attributes</em>. There may (or may not)
be forms in the application that let you inspect and change
certain attributes of certain concepts.
This tutorial has a standard form ("knowledge of tutorial")
that lets you change the knowledge value of certain concepts.
(The author determines which concepts
have a user-changeable knowledge value.)
</li>
<li>
Another set of author-defined rules determines the status of
(links to) concepts and associates a presentation style for links
to the concepts. Although the rules can be completely arbitrary,
resulting in a plethora of link presentations, it is more typical
that some simple rules are used that associate the link presentation
with the <em>suitability</em> of the link destination.
This is also what we did in this tutorial.
The presentation (as used here) can be:
<ul>
<li>
GOOD: the link points to a suitable page you have not visited before.
The standard color for such link anchors is blue.
</li>
<li>
NEUTRAL: the link points to a suitable page you have visited before.
The standard color for such link anchors is purple.
</li>
<li>
BAD: the link points to an unsuitable page. Whether or not you visited
this page before the standard color for such link anchors is
(almost) black.
</li>
</ul>
In addition to link colors the presentation of links may also include
icons. In this tutorial the navigation menu shows colored bullets
(green, white or red), whereas in the text pages it does not.
In the <a href="advanced" class="conditional">advanced</a> authoring
section we explain how this works.
<br />
An application may offer a form through which you can change the link
color scheme. (This tutorial offers such a form: "link colors").<br />
Each time you visit a page the suitability of all the links on that
page is determined. As a result the set of links you see may differ
each time.
</li>
<li>
<a href="pages" class="conditional">Pages</a>
may also contain rules (or conditions) to determine the suitability of
<a href="fragments" class="conditional">fragments</a>
(like sentences or paragraphs).
Each time you visit a page the suitability of each fragment is
determined. As a result the information you see on the page
may differ each time.
</li>
<li>
<a href="pages" class="conditional">Pages</a> may also contain
text fragments of which the
<a href="visibility" class="conditional">presentation</a>
can be adapted. Text can be made smaller or larger or emphasized
in other ways.
</li>
<li>
When you navigate through your browser's history (using the
<em>back</em> and <em>forward</em> buttons) the browser may not request the
pages you revisit from the WOW! server but may use cached versions.
This results in pages being shown exactly as you saw them before,
and not in the "new" form that would correspond to the most recent
user model. WOW! attempts to instruct the browser to not used such
cached versions (and at the time of this writing this works with
Internet Explorer and Mozilla Firefox) but some browsers may ignore
these instructions.<br />
Also, when you open a new browser window (or tab) when following a link
and then close it, the page you "return to" is not reloaded automatically.
When in doubt you can use the browser's <em>reload</em>
function to retrieve a newly adapted page, or you can navigate using
a topic menu, as shown on the left in this tutorial.
</li>
<li>
Apart from information pages an WOW! application may contain
<em>forms</em> that let you change settings in your
<a href="usermodel" class="conditional">user model</a>.
We have included an
<a href="tutorial-form.frm" class="unconditional">example form</a>
to show that authors can allow users to manipulate certain items
in their user model.
</li>
<li>
There can also be forms that are intended as
<a href="multiplechoice" class="conditional">multiple-choice tests</a>,
but typically such tests are served through the newer
"test engine".
We show an
<a href="testtutorial_tutorial_C_activity.xml|DoAppletTest">example test</a>
here
<if expr="tutorial.tutorial.knowledge&lt;70">
<block>
(but you probably need to study the tutorial further
in order to answer the questions of the correctly)
</block>
</if>.
</li>
<li>
You can "log off" from an WOW! application (in the tutorial this
is possible through a link in the page header). The "log off" button
or link will bring you back to the login page for the application.
When you are logged on and you do not request any page for a long time
your session will time out and you will be logged out automatically.
The server will forget your session
and thus also which application you were using.
As a result you will be redirected to the top page of the WOW! server,
not to the login page for the application.
</li>
</ul>

<object data="../footer.xhtml" type="text/wow">
<p>
<b>Warning:</b>
If you see this text it means you are not viewing the page through
the WOW! system.
</p>
</object>
</html>
