<!DOCTYPE html SYSTEM "/wow/WOWstandard/xhtml-wowext-1.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<object data="../header.xhtml" type="text/wow">
<p>
<b>Warning:</b>
If you see this text it means you are not viewing the page through
the WOW! system.
</p>
</object>

<h2>WOW! Supporting Software Environment</h2>

<p>
WOW! consists of Java Servlets. While it may be possible to
make WOW! work with any environment that supports Java Servlets,
we recommend the environment described here.
We only describe the server-side requirements.
There are no client-side requirements other than a fully functional
operating system and WWW browser.
</p>

<h3>Operating System</h3>

<p>
In theory any operating system can be used if it supports a Java 2
environment. The WOW! team has (successfully) tested WOW! on different
versions of Microsoft Windows (up to Windows XP)
as well as on Linux (Redhat versions 7 and 8 and Fedora core 4, 5 and 6).
</p>

<h3>Java Environment</h3>

<p>
WOW! requires the use of Sun's Java 2 environment (J2SE).
It works with the Java SDK versions 1.4 and newer.
(Older versions do not work, and alternatives like Kaffe do not work either.)
Successive releases of the Java SDK have
different new features (new classes and/or methods), and deprecate
and abandon previously existing features.
This may cause problems with newer Java SDK versions.
We will include support for newer Java SDK versions in newer WOW! versions.
The Java SDK can be downloaded from
<a href="http://java.sun.com/j2se/downloads.html"
target="_blank">http://java.sun.com/j2se/downloads.html</a>.
Note that you must install the SDK not just the JRE (which is the runtime
environment only). <a href="compile" class="conditional">Compiling WOW!</a>
is part of the installation procedure
and thus requires the SDK.
</p>

<h3>Web Server</h3>

<p>
WOW! needs a Webserver that can call Java Servlets.
While several such Webservers exist they are all configured in
different ways. We recommend the use of the
<a href="http://tomcat.apache.org/" target="_blank">Tomcat</a>
webserver.
Although officially obsolete using Sun's JWSDP still makes
perfect sense because it offers an easy way to configure
Tomcat. We have successfully tested WOW! with versions 1.5 and 2.0 of JWSDP.
When installing JWSDP you need to download and install an
adapted TomCat server separately.
JWSDP can be downloaded from
<a href="http://java.sun.com/webservices/downloads/webservicespack.html"
target="_blank">http://java.sun.com/webservices/downloads/webservicespack.html</a>.
The adapted TomCat server can be downloaded from
<a href="http://java.sun.com/webservices/containers/tomcat_for_JWSDP_1_5.html"
target="_blank">http://java.sun.com/webservices/containers/tomcat_for_JWSDP_1_5.html</a>.
(WOW! itself does not use any JWSDP features. It runs on a "plain" Tomcat,
but the version that comes with JWSDP makes the configuration easier.)
</p>

<h3>Database System</h3>

<p>
The use of a database with WOW! is <em>optional</em>.
It does not seem to help the performance, but it does allow you
to query the database with user profile information.
Database server support works with Microsoft Windows as well as Linux.
(We do not test it frequently though.)
Note that in order for WOW! to work with Database server you need to
create the appropriate Database server user, (which you can choose
through the
<a href="firstconfig" class="conditional">WOW! configuration tool</a>
but which is not created on the Database server through the
WOW! configuration tool).
</p>

<object data="../footer.xhtml" type="text/wow">
<p>
<b>Warning:</b>
If you see this text it means you are not viewing the page through
the WOW! system.
</p>
</object>
</html>
