<!DOCTYPE html SYSTEM "/wow/WOWstandard/xhtml-wowext-1.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<object data="../header.xhtml" type="text/wow">
<p>
<b>Warning:</b>
If you see this text it means you are not viewing the page through
the WOW! system.
</p>
</object>

<h2>Configuring WOW!</h2>

<p>
We assume that you have <a href="compile" class="conditional">built</a>
the WOW! binaries, and that the TomCat server
<if expr="tutorial.wowcontext.knowledge==0">
<block>
(for instance Sun's version JWDSP from
<a href="http://java.sun.com/webservices/downloads/webservicespack.html"
target="_blank">http://java.sun.com/webservices/downloads/webservicespack.html</a>)
</block>
</if>
is installed and running, and that you have
<a href="wowcontext" class="conditional">created a "context"</a>
for WOW!, with "/wow" as pathname.
</p>

<p>
Configuring WOW! consists of the following steps:
</p>
<ol>
<li>
In the browser you go to the address
<a href="/wow/Config" target="_blank" class="unconditional">/wow/Config</a>.
The first time you do this a page appears that says
"Installing Configuration file".
This step actually executes a servlet that creates the WOW!
configuration files containing the information you entered
when <a href="wowcontext" class="conditional">creating
the WOW! context</a> for TomCat.
</li>
<li>
Because the first step overwrites the initial configuration file,
the next step only works if you configured the WOW! context to be
reloadable. If you click on the
<a href="/wow/Config" target="_blank" class="unconditional">Configuration</a>
link you go to "WowConfig" page.
If the context is not reloadable you have to restart the TomCat server
first.
<if expr="tutorial.wowcontext.knowledge==0">
<block>
(Execute shutdown.sh and
startup.sh on Linux or shutdown.bat and startup.bat on Windows.)
</block>
</if>
<br />
You can always go to the "WowConfig" page later, using the
link <a href="/wow/Config" target="_blank" class="unconditional">/wow/Config</a>.
You will never see the "Installing Configuration file" page again.
</li>
<li>
When you try to go to WowConfig page you are prompted for a
login and password. Initially you should use "wow" as login and no password.
</li>
<li>
The first thing to do when shown the
<a href="/wow/tutorial/images/wowconfig.gif"
target="_blank" class="unconditional">WowConfig page</a> is to select
"Manager Configuration" and then select "Change an existing user"
from the
<a href="/wow/tutorial/images/adminmenu.gif"
target="_blank" class="unconditional">Manager administration menu</a>,
in order to change the "wow" <em>login</em> to a name you prefer,
and to add a password.
This is important for security reasons, because everyone who knows
WOW! also knows that it comes with "wow" as the default manager
without a password.
</li>
<li>
Through the <a href="/wow/tutorial/images/authormenu.gif"
target="_blank" class="unconditional">Author menu</a>
you can <a href="/wow/tutorial/images/addauthormenu.gif"
target="_blank" class="unconditional">create authors</a>
and assign applications to authors.
</li>
<li>
WOW! is now ready to be used. It contains this
<a href="/wow/tutorial/" target="_blank"
class="unconditional">tutorial</a> as an example
adaptive hyperdocument.
It uses a set of XML files to store the concept information and the
user profiles. To change the WOW! database configuration, you can click on the "Configure Database" link to create
the database. Note that your database must have been
configured to accept the login and password that you
choose, <em>before</em> attempting to have WOW! create the database.
</li>
</ol>

<object data="../footer.xhtml" type="text/wow">
<p>
<b>Warning:</b>
If you see this text it means you are not viewing the page through
the WOW! system.
</p>
</object>
</html>
