<!DOCTYPE html SYSTEM "/wow/WOWstandard/xhtml-wowext-1.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<object data="../header.xhtml" type="text/wow">
<p>
<b>Warning:</b>
If you see this text it means you are not viewing the page through
the WOW! system.
</p>
</object>

<h2>The Form Editor</h2>

<p>
The Form Editor enables you to create custom forms
to let end-users change values of attributes of concepts in
their user model.
To this end the Form Editor offers the following features:
<ul>
<li>
You can choose an application name and load the concept structure
of that application. You can only create forms that let end-users
modify attribute values of concepts of a single application.
The concepts and attributes are shown in a way that
resembles the Windows explorer.
</li>
<li>
For each attribute that is marked as <em>changeable</em> in the
concept structure a field can be created in the form.
You first have to select the attribute of the concept,
and then you can create the form field.
A form can contain the following types of fields:
<ul>
<li>
<a href="/wow/tutorial/images/form-input.gif" target="_blank"
class="unconditional">Input</a>:
This is used to create a textfield, intended to enter numbers or strings.
A text field has a visible "Size", a "maxLength" to indicate how
many characters can be typed (can be more than the "Size"),
and 
</li>
<li>
<a href="/wow/tutorial/images/form-select.gif" target="_blank"
class="unconditional">Select</a>:
This is used to create a list of possible values of which
one can be selected. The width of the list is determined by "Size".
The "EnumList" field is used to enter the possible values
as a semicolon-separated list.
</li>
<li>
<a href="/wow/tutorial/images/form-option.gif" target="_blank"
class="unconditional">Option</a>:
This is used to create <em>radio buttons</em> (only one
choice allowed) or <em>check boxes</em> (more than one choice allowed).<br />
The "Allowed" field should have a value of 1 to create radio buttons.<br />
The "EnumList" is the list of choices, which must be a semicolon-separated list.
</li>
<li>
<a href="/wow/tutorial/images/form-button.gif" target="_blank"
class="unconditional">Button</a>:
This is used to create the "submit" or "reset" buttons.
</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li>
The FormEditor shows an
<a href="/wow/tutorial/images/formeditor-xml.gif" target="_blank"
class="unconditional">editable view of the XML file</a> it will
create for the form.
You can add text, xhtml code or move pieces around.
There is also a <a href="/wow/tutorial/images/formeditor-preview.gif" target="_blank"
class="unconditional">"Preview"</a> that shows more or less what the form
will look like. This Preview is created using a "standard" Java
Swing class. Its understanding of html and xhtml is somewhat limited.
The FormEditor assumes that a "header.xhtml" and "footer.xhtml" file
can be included, but you can edit that part out.
</li>
<li>
When saving the form you can select where to save it on the server.
This will typically be somewhere in the directory tree of the application
the form will be used in. The form editor saves <em>on the server</em>,
not on your local PC. You can copy the form to your PC using the
<a href="amt" class="conditional">application management tool</a> (AMT).
</li>
</ul>
</p>

<p>
We have a small
<a href="tutorial-form.frm" class="unconditional">example form</a>
in which you can see different form elements in action.
Changing knowledge values has an effect on the prerequisite
relationships and may therefore change colors of links.
Changing the "interest" value has no visible effect.
</p>

<object data="../footer.xhtml" type="text/wow">
<p>
<b>Warning:</b>
If you see this text it means you are not viewing the page through
the WOW! system.
</p>
</object>
</html>
