<!DOCTYPE html SYSTEM "/wow/WOWstandard/xhtml-wowext-1.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<object data="../header.xhtml" type="text/wow">
<p>
<b>Warning:</b>
If you see this text it means you are not viewing the page through
the WOW! system.
</p>
</object>

<h2>Conditional Inclusion of Fragments</h2>

<p>
WOW! lets you conditionally include or hide parts of a page.
In order to use <em>conditional fragments</em> the page needs
to be in the XHTML+WOW format, not in standard XHTML.
The condition is an expression using attributes of (user model) concepts
and constants. The condition is included in an <tt>&lt;if&gt;</tt> tag.
One or two <tt>&lt;block&gt;</tt> tags are used for the conditional fragments.
They correspond to a "then" and "else" construct in programming languages.
An example:
<pre>
&lt;if expr="tutorial.usermodel.suitability==true"&gt;
&lt;block&gt;
This part is included when in application "tutorial"
the attribute "suitability" of concept "usermodel" has the value true.
&lt;/block&gt;
&lt;block&gt;
This optional second part is included when the first part
is not included.
&lt;/block&gt;
&lt;/if&gt;
</pre>
</p>

<p>
Conditions can contain Boolean combinations of expressions,
like:
<pre>
"tutorial.pages.knowledge&amp;gt;50 and tutorial.fragments.knowledge&amp;lt;30"
</pre>
It would have been nice to be able to write &lt; and &gt; instead of
&amp;lt; and &amp;gt; but unfortunately this would confuse the XML parser.
<br />
Instead of <tt>tutorial.usermodel.suitability==true</tt> one may also
simply write <tt>tutorial.usermodel.suitability</tt> because that is
already a Boolean expression. In the expressions you can use
the words "not", "and" and "or". Standard priority rules apply but
when in doubt you can use parentheses.
<br />
If strings are used in expressions they must be put in single quotes ('),
so as to not confuse the quotes with the double quotes (") aroung the
whole expression.
</p>

<p>
WOW! 1.0 has an alternative way to conditionally include information:
<a href="objects" class="conditional">conditional objects</a>.
They allow for not only conditional but also <em>reusable</em> content
and can be used with standard XHTML as well as with the XHTML+WOW format.
</p>

<p>
Note: Currently there is a limitation in WOW! that causes
the conditional inclusion of fragments not to work within
a link anchor. (So the link anchor text cannot contain a
conditionally included fragment, although a conditionally
included fragment can contain link anchors.)
This will be fixed in the future.
</p>

<object data="../footer.xhtml" type="text/wow">
<p>
<b>Warning:</b>
If you see this text it means you are not viewing the page through
the WOW! system.
</p>
</object>
</html>
