<!DOCTYPE html SYSTEM "/wow/WOWstandard/xhtml-wowext-1.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<object data="../header.xhtml" type="text/wow">
<p>
<b>Warning:</b>
If you see this text it means you are not viewing the page through
the WOW! system.
</p>
</object>

<h2>WOW! Installation Instructions</h2>

<p>
This page is only interesting for people who wish to install the
<em>server side</em> part of WOW!.
If you are an end-user or author using an existing WOW! server there
is nothing you need to install on your (client) side, except for a
recent WWW browser such as Mozilla Firefox or Internet Explorer
configured so that it allows WOW! to store cookies on the client
and allows web-pages to control link colors.
</p>

<p>
Installing WOW! involves three steps:
</p>
<ol>
<li>
You first need to have the right
<a href="environment" class="conditional">software environment</a>,
including an appropriate version of Windows or Linux,
and Sun's Java SDK.
You need a fully functional Tomcat webserver (running
in that Java environment),
and optionally also the mySQL database system.
Before configuring Tomcat and WOW! <b>you must
<a href="compile" class="conditional">build</a> (or compile) WOW!</b>.
</li>
<li>
When TomCat (and mySQL) are running you need to create and configure an
<a href="wowcontext" class="conditional">WOW! context</a>
so that the TomCat server knows where to find the WOW! servlets and documents.
</li>
<li>
The TomCat server needs to be restarted in order to be able to
<a href="firstconfig" class="conditional">configure WOW!</a>. 
(Execute shutdown.sh and
startup.sh on Linux or shutdown.bat and startup.bat on Windows.)
When WOW! is running you can try to access
<a href="/wow/tutorial/" class="unconditional">/wow/tutorial/</a>
and try reading the tutorial from your own server.
</li>
</ol>

<p>
After installing and using WOW! it is possible to change
the configuration again by going back to the
<a href="/wow/Config" target="_blank" class="unconditional">/wow/Config</a>
page and logging
in as the WOW! manager. This page lets you perform the following
four actions:
</p>
<ul>
<li>
The "Configure Database" link leads to a form that lets you choose
between XML and mySQL for storing the concept information and the
user profiles. When changing this setting WOW! will offer the
possibility to convert the data to the new format.
When switching to mySQL for the first time you should check the
box to create the database.
For experimental and stand-alone WOW! installations it is easiest
to choose XML, whereas for multi-user servers it is probably better to
choose mySQL. Our experience shows that this does not make the
system faster, but it does allow querying of the
<a href="usermodel" class="conditional">user model</a> database.
<br />
<b>Warning:</b> When you change the database setting (switch from
XML to mySQL or back, or change the database name) you have to
restart the TomCat server before the settings will work.
</li>
<li>
The "Manager Configuration" link leads to a form that lets you
add or change WOW! managers. If you are studying the tutorial on
your own installed WOW! server you should already have changed the default
manager's password, but if you did not we must remind you that this
is very important. Every WOW! installation has "wow" as the
default manager, with an empty password. Everyone who knows about
WOW! will use this combination as a first guess to try and break
into an existing WOW! server. Note that creating a new manager
does not remove the default one, so you should modify the existing
"wow" manager, give it a password, and optionally change its name.
</li>
<li>
The "Authors" link leads to a form that lets you add or change
WOW! authors. The concept structure of an application can only
be modified by its author(s).
WOW! currently does not include content management for the
document tree associated with an application.
</li>
<li>
The "Convert concept list from internal format to XML file" link
performs the translation of the concept information
from the internal XML or mySQL format
(whichever is active) to a single XML file or a set of XML files
in the format used by the authoring tools. (A single WOW! server
can contain several top-level hyperdocuments and each will be
represented by a separate authoring XML file so that different
authors can work simultaneously on their own hyperdocument.)

</li>
<li>
The "Convert concept list from XML file to internal format" link
commits changes made by authoring tools. It converts the XML file(s)
created by the authoring tools to the internal format which is
a set of XML files or the mySQL database depending on the chosen setting.
</li>
</ul>

<object data="../footer.xhtml" type="text/wow">
<p>
<b>Warning:</b>
If you see this text it means you are not viewing the page through
the WOW! system.
</p>
</object>
</html>
