<!DOCTYPE html SYSTEM "/wow/WOWstandard/xhtml-wowext-1.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<object data="../header.xhtml" type="text/wow">
<p>
<b>Warning:</b>
If you see this text it means you are not viewing the page through
the WOW! system.
</p>
</object>

<h2>The Layout of an WOW! Application</h2>

<p>
As of WOW! 1.0 the layout of an application is determined by two files:
<tt>LayoutConfig.xml</tt> and <tt>ConceptTypeConfig.xml</tt>.
</p>
<ul>
<li>
The <tt>LayoutConfig.xml</tt> file defines <em>views</em>, <em>viewgroups</em>
and <em>layouts</em>.
<ul>
<li>A <b>view</b> is an atomic presentation unit. A view can present
an XHTML file from the application, or one of a number of automatically
generated pieces of content or links to other (secondary) views.
Which views can exist in an application is defined by WOW! itself.
For each type of view a (Java) module is needed to generate views of that type.
Some typical view types used in WOW! applications are:
<ul>
<li>
<b>MainView</b> is the type used to present a page. In WOW! for every
request for a <em>concept</em> an associated <em>resource</em> or <em>page</em>
is determined and that page is presented in the MainView.
</li>
<li>
<b>TOCView</b> generates a complete (concept) table of contents.
(See the "Content" button at the bottom left in this tutorial.)
</li>
<li>
<b>GlossaryView</b> generates a glossary interface. This view was created
mainly to simulate the glossary presentation from InterBook.
</li>
<li>
<b>ToolboxView</b> creates a list of buttons that lead to other views.
frame on the lower left in the tutorial (with the "Content" button)
is a ToolboxView.
</li>
<li>
<b>StaticTreeView</b>, <b>TreeView</b>, <b>PathView</b> and <b>ChildrenView</b>
are views that show part of the concept hierarchy, displaying and hiding links
in different ways. This tutorial uses the StaticTreeView.
</li>
<li>
<b>FileView</b> is used to present a file with a specific name.
The file can be adapted (it may contain "variable" tags and
conditional fragments). In this tutorial the page header and footer
are part of the same frame as the page, but by using a FileView to
include them they can be placed in a fixed position (most useful
for the footer).
</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li>A <b>viewgroup</b> is a grouping of views to form what is presented
in a single window. A viewgroup is translated to an HTML frameset in which
every view is a frame. Compounds can be used to group some views together
in a single frame.
</li>
<li>A <b>layout</b> is a set of viewgroups that together form the
presentation of an WOW! application. A layout has a unique name.
A single application may have
different layouts for different types of concepts. The presentation
for information pages (with additional information) can be different
from the presentation of a glossary for instance.
</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li>
The <tt>ConceptTypeConfig.xml</tt> is used to define how concepts
of different types and links to concepts are presented.
For each concept type there is
a <b>representation</b> which is the layout to use for concepts
of this type. The remainder of the definition relates to link
annotations. Whenever there is a link anchor it can be presented in
different colors and it can be preceded by an icon and/or followed by an icon.
The <tt>&lt;linkanno&gt;</tt> tag is used to define conditions for
using a (named) link color. Typically this defines the conditions for the
link classes "Good", "Neutral" or "Bad", but one can define different
and/or more classes, for which a style sheet has to define the presentation.
The <tt>&lt;iconanno&gt;</tt> tag defines the conditions for using an
icon (in front of or behind the anchor), and it defines the view in which
the icon is used. Different view types may use different icons under
different conditions.
In this tutorial we use a font icon to indicate the status of the link
(good, neutral, bad or unconditional). This annotation is used in the
(Static)TreeView that shows the menu on the left, but not in the
MainView that shows the page.
In this tutorial the conditions for the icons in the menu have been
chosen to be the same as for the prerequisite relationships,
so that the icons and link colors match: a test for sufficient knowledge and
a check whether the concept was already visited or not.
A <b>pathicon</b> is sed to indicate the status of a link in a TOCView.
The easiest way to figure out what the different options (and syntax
elements) are is to have a look in the files that come with
this tutorial.
</li>
</ul>

<object data="../footer.xhtml" type="text/wow">
<p>
<b>Warning:</b>
If you see this text it means you are not viewing the page through
the WOW! system.
</p>
</object>
</html>
