<!DOCTYPE html SYSTEM "/wow/WOWstandard/xhtml-wowext-1.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<object data="../header.xhtml" type="text/wow">
<p>
<b>Warning:</b>
If you see this text it means you are not viewing the page through
the WOW! system.
</p>
</object>

<h2>Creating a Login or Registration Page</h2>

<p>
By looking at the source of the
<a href="/wow/tutorial" class="unconditional">tutorial login page</a> and the
<a href="/wow/tutorial/Registration.html" class="unconditional">registration page</a>
you can get a good idea what these pages must contain.
We briefly summarize the attributes and fields that can be present in
the login and registration forms:
</p>
<ul>
<li>
<b>action</b>: Every HTML form must have an action attribute.
It is the name of the servlet to call. It must be "/wow/Register"
on the registration page and "/wow/Login" on the login page.
For anonymous login and registration the action is "/wow/Anonymous".
</li>
<li>
<b>name</b>: This is the user's name. It can be shown anywhere in pages
but is typically shown in
<a href="headerfooter" class="conditional">headers or footers</a>,
and it can be used in
<object name="tutorial.adaptationrule" type="text/wow" />
<a href="rules" class="conditional">rules</a>.
So can all other fields that appear on the login and registration forms.
The name field has no special function.
</li>
<li>
<b>email</b>: This is the user's email address.
</li>
<li>
<b>login</b>: This is the user's login id. It must be unique in the system.
It is used when logging in again.
</li>
<li>
<b>password</b>: This is the user's password. It should be kept secret
and be different from passwords used with other systems.
WOW! currently does not store passwords in a very secure way.
</li>
<li>
<b>start</b>: This is the name of the first concept to be shown after
registering or logging in. This is typically a hidden field.
It is mandatory: WOW! does not know which page to show without this field.
</li>
<li>
<b>course</b>: This is the name of the WOW! application.
(The name "course" was chosen for historical reasons.)
The application name is used in conjunction with the concept structure.
This is typically a hidden field. It is mandatory. WOW! will not work
when this field is missing.
</li>
<li>
<b>directory</b>: This is the name of the directory on the server
containing the application. In principle this can be different
from the application's name, but not all tools are guaranteed
to recognize applications where the name is different from the directory.
</li>
<li>
<b>title</b>: The title that can be used to refer to the application.
The title can have several words whereas "course" can be only one word.
</li>
<li>
<b>background</b>: This is the name of an optional background image to
be used on the application's pages (in XHTML+WOW format).
</li>
<li>
Other fields may be used as well. They result in attributes of the
"personal" concept in the
<a href="usermodel" class="conditional">user model</a>
which can be used in the
<a href="rules" class="conditional"><object name="tutorial.adaptationrule" type="text/wow"/> rules</a>.
</li>
<li>
The <b>submit</b> button must have the correct name to be recognized by WOW!.
It is "enter_button" on the registration form and 
</li>
<li>
For an anonymous login there is a separate form with
"/wow/Anonymous" as its action.
In the form the submit button must have a "name"
field with value "session_button" on the registration page
and "resume_button" on the login page.
Other than that the form may contain the same fields as
for non-anonymous logins, although there are typically no
fields to be filled out. The only fields that cannot be present
(or will be ignored) are "login" and "password".
</li>
</ul>

<object data="../footer.xhtml" type="text/wow">
<p>
<b>Warning:</b>
If you see this text it means you are not viewing the page through
the WOW! system.
</p>
</object>
</html>
