<!DOCTYPE html SYSTEM "/wow/WOWstandard/xhtml-wowext-1.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<object data="../header.xhtml" type="text/wow">
<p>
<b>Warning:</b>
If you see this text it means you are not viewing the page through
the WOW! system.
</p>
</object>

<h2>Conditional Inclusion of Objects</h2>

<p>
WOW! 1.0 introduces a new use of the standard XHTML
<tt>&lt;object&gt;</tt> tag: the conditional inclusion of (XML) files.
Unlike with the <a href="headerfooter" class="conditional">headers
and footers</a> that are unconditionally included, the conditional objects
use the <tt>&lt;object&gt;</tt> tag with a <tt>name</tt> attribute
referring to a concept and the <tt>text/wow</tt> object type.
An example:
<pre>
&lt;object name="tutorial.conditionalobject" type="text/wow"&gt;
</pre>
or also
<pre>
&lt;object name="conditionalobject" type="text/wow"&gt;
</pre>
In the second case the concept <tt>conditionalobject</tt> is
assumed to belong to the current application.
</p>

<p>
Using the authoring tools for the
<a href="domainmodel" class="conditional">domain model</a>
you can create a list of pairs of Boolean expressions and files,
such that the (first) expression in the list that is "true"
determines which file will be included in the page,
at the place where the
<tt>object</tt> tag appears in the source.
Note that in the
<a href="/wow/tutorial/images/resources.gif" target="_blank"
class="unconditional">dialog box for assigning resources</a> to
these expressions the symbol for &gt; is &gt; whereas in an XML
representation (as generated by the authoring tools) the
symbol for &gt; would be &amp;gt;.
</p>

<p>
A conditionally included file (through the <tt>object</tt> tag)
must be an XML fragment with one root element. It is inserted
into the parse stream of the page in which it is included.
The file may contain <tt>object</tt> tags itself, causing more
conditionally included objects to be considered.
</p>

<p>
Conditional objects stimulate reuse of information.
When the same information has to be (conditionally) included
in several pages you need to create the objects to be included
only once, and also the rules that determine which file to
include exist in only one place.
</p>

<p>
When an object is included, the access to its concept causes the
<object name="tutorial.adaptationrule" type="text/wow" />
<a href="rules" class="conditional">rules</a>
associated with that concept to be triggered.
This generates <a href="usermodel" class="conditional">user model</a>
updates, that in turn influence how the remainder of the page is adapted.
When these rules not only evaluate which file to include but indeed do
generate user model updates, it can cause strange adaptation effects
because the part of the page above the object and the part below
the object are adapted to a different user model state.
</p>

<p>
Objects do not necessarily refer to larger portions of conditionally
included content. In this tutorial for instance, we use a
conditional object wherever the term
"<object name="tutorial.adaptationrule" type="text/wow" /> rule"
appears. The two alternative presentations are XML files,
one containing <tt>&lt;span&gt;adaptation&lt;/span&gt;</tt>
and the other one containing
<tt>&lt;span&gt;event-condition-action&lt;/span&gt;</tt>.
Which version the end-user sees depends on the condition
<tt>tutorial.rules.knowledge&amp;gt;50</tt>.
At the time of this writing this example of a conditional object
is used 20 times in the tutorial, so it is a nice example of reuse.
</p>

<p>
Note: Currently there is a limitation in WOW! that causes
the conditional inclusion of objects not to work within
a link anchor. (So the link anchor text cannot contain a
conditionally included object.) This will be fixed in the future.
</p>

<object data="../footer.xhtml" type="text/wow">
<p>
<b>Warning:</b>
If you see this text it means you are not viewing the page through
the WOW! system.
</p>
</object>
</html>
