<!DOCTYPE html SYSTEM "/wow/WOWstandard/xhtml-wowext-1.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<object data="../header.xhtml" type="text/wow">
<p>
<b>Warning:</b>
If you see this text it means you are not viewing the page through
the WOW! system.
</p>
</object>

<h2>The WOW! Page Format</h2>

<p>
Pages in WOW! applications are written in
<a href="http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/" target="_blank">XHTML</a>,
with or without an extension for special WOW! tags (explained below).
Every WOW! page that uses the special tags must start with the following line:
<pre>
&lt;!DOCTYPE html SYSTEM "/wow/WOWstandard/xhtml-wowext-1.dtd"&gt;
</pre>
(where the <tt>/wow</tt> prefix is the <em>path</em>
parameter in the
<a href="wowcontext" class="conditional">WOW! configuration</a>).
The content of the page uses a default namespace of xhtml:
<pre>
&lt;html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"&gt;
...
&lt;/html&gt;
</pre>
</p>

<p>
The content of a page should follow the XHTML or the XHTML+WOW
format. (WOW! does not validate the syntax, but it does use an XML
parser and will therefore not accept pages that are not valid XML.)
We have a short description of the
<a href="xhtml" class="conditional">differences between HTML and XHTML</a>
and also a description on <a href="standardxhtml" class="conditional">how
to use WOW! with standard XHTML</a>.
WOW! pages (in the XHTML+WOW format) start with the <tt>&lt;html&gt;</tt>
tag but do not have a <tt>&lt;head&gt;</tt>
or <tt>&lt;body&gt;</tt> tag, because these are automatically generated.
The header contains an automatically generated (link to a)
style sheet that defines
the link colors, and the body tag defines the background for the page.
WOW! pages may contain four types of special elements:
tags to generate certain information, typically used in
<a href="headerfooter" class="conditional">headers and footers</a>,
tags to <a href="fragments" class="conditional">conditionaly include fragments</a>,
<a href="objects" class="conditional">conditional objects</a>
and <em>conditional links</em>.
</p>

<ul>
<li>
<a href="headerfooter" class="conditional">Headers and footers</a>
are examples of the <em>unconditional</em> inclusion of objects,
through the <tt>object</tt> tag, with a <tt>data</tt> attribute
that is a URL pointing to the file to be included,
for example:
<pre>
&lt;object data="../header.xhtml" type="text/wow" /&gt;
</pre>
There are special tags that are typically used in headers and footers
but that can in fact be used anywhere in WOW! pages.
Headers and footers are optional.
</li>
<li>
<a href="fragments" class="conditional">Fragments</a>
are conditionally included using the
<tt>&lt;if&gt;</tt> tag.
The content of a fragment must be a syntactically correct piece of XHTML+WOW
code (possibly including other fragments), in which all the tags
are properly nested. 
</li>
<li>
Content can also be conditionally included using
<a href="objects" class="conditional">conditional objects</a>.
These are defined through the standard XHTML <tt>&lt;object&gt;</tt> tag,
with the special type of <tt>text/wow</tt> and a <tt>name</tt> attribute
that is a URL that refers to a concept. The advantages over conditional
fragments are that no extension of XHTML is needed and that the same
piece of content can be included in different pages without having to
copy it.
</li>
<li>
WOW! distinguishes three types of links: conditional, unconditional and external.
<ul>
<li>
Conditional links are of the class "conditional". The destination
can be a concept or a page. (The application's
<a href="concepts" class="conditional">concept structure</a>
connects concepts to pages. In most cases it makes no difference whether you
create a link to a concept or to the corresponding page.)
<pre>&lt;a href="tutorial.conceptname" class="conditional"&gt;...&lt;/a&gt;</pre>
or
<pre>&lt;a href="conceptname" class="conditional"&gt;...&lt;/a&gt;</pre>
(in which the current application is assumed), or
<pre>&lt;a href="pagename.xhtml" class="conditional"&gt;...&lt;/a&gt;</pre>
or
<pre>&lt;a href="http://site/pagename.xhtml" class="conditional"&gt;...&lt;/a&gt;</pre>
are conditionally shown to or hidden from the end-user.
The condition is part of the application's
<a href="concepts" class="conditional">concept structure</a>.
In the typical (but not required) color or link presentation scheme
the link color of "desired" links depends on the "visited" status
of the link destination. The default color scheme is blue (desirable,
unvisited), purple (desirable, visited) and black (undesirable).
WOW! allows different and much more complex color schemes as well.
The end-user can choose different colors. Whatever the color scheme is,
the "ColorConfig" form gives the end-user access to all the colors
(but not to the conditions for choosing them).
<br />
It is possible to associate more than one page with a concept.
This is done in exactly the same way as with
<a href="objects" class="conditional">conditional objects</a>.
Depending on conditions a different page can be shown for a single concept.
We call this <em>adaptive link destinations</em>.
When a new user registers for this tutorial the first ("welcome") concept
has an adaptive link destination. The initial "readme" page you see as
a new user is shown only once. As of the second visit a "welcome" page
is shown instead.
</li>
<li>
Links can be declared as "unconditional", in which case their
presentation only depends on the "visited" status.
These links can point to a concept or a page, just like conditional links.
</li>
<li>
Links that are not conditional or unconditional are considered to be
"external" links. They can be recognized by a different color
(and possible underlining). By default the colors are bright red
(unvisited) and dark red (visited).
</li>
</ul>
</li>
</ul>

<object data="../footer.xhtml" type="text/wow">
<p>
<b>Warning:</b>
If you see this text it means you are not viewing the page through
the WOW! system.
</p>
</object>
</html>
