<!DOCTYPE html SYSTEM "/wow/WOWstandard/xhtml-wowext-1.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<object data="../header.xhtml" type="text/wow">
<p>
<b>Warning:</b>
If you see this text it means you are not viewing the page through
the WOW! system.
</p>
</object>

<p>
<strong>CAUTION:</strong>
This file is part of WOW! based on AHA! (Adaptive Hypermedia for All) which is free software (GNU General Public License) developed by Paul De Bra - Eindhoven University of Technology and University. 
Copyright (c) 2006 by Eindhoven University of Technology.
It may be used according to the GNU license of Eindhoven University of Technology
</p>

<h2>What you need to know first:</h2>

<p>
Welcome to the WOW! tutorial. In order to enjoy learning about and using
WOW!, please go over these instructions on how to deal with differences
between computing environments and browsers, so that you can be certain
you have the proper environment.
</p>

<p>
<em>"Listen very carefully: I will say this only once!</em><br />
<small>(Quote from the TV show "Allo Allo".)</small>
</p>

<p>
This tutorial is offered on-line, on the
<a href="http://wow.hcmuns.edu.vn/">WOW! website</a>
but is also included in the WOW! distribution.
When you installed the WOW! distribution on your own system,
going through the tutorial is a good way to check whether the
system is functioning properly. The tutorial is pre-installed
in the distribution. This tutorial will explain how to uninstall
it should you decide you no longer want it on your own server.
</p>

<p>There are a number of things you should pay attention to
when installing WOW! and using it, either as an end-user or as an author:
</p>
<ul>
<li>
WOW! is implemented entirely in Java, and works with the Java-based
webserver Tomcat and with Java servlets. You need recent versions of
Tomcat and of the Java SDK to make WOW! work. On the browser side
you should use recent versions (of for instance Mozilla Firefox or
Microsoft Internet Explorer) to ensure full support of (X)HTML and
HTTP. If you experience problems with WOW! in combination with your
browser, please make sure you access the WOW! server right after
starting the browser (without visiting any other pages).
Some browsers, especially Internet Explorer, sometimes do not work correctly
with WOW! after their internal memory has become corrupted through
visits to other Websites. There should be no problem when WOW! is the first
site you visit.
</li>
<li>
WOW! provides <em>content adaptation</em> by conditionally
selecting pages, fragments or objects and through <em>link adaptation</em>
by conditionally changing the color of link anchors and possibly
adding icons.
The adaptation is performed each time a page is requested from the server.
WOW! tries to "convince" the browser to request a page from the server
even when you navigate through the browsing history (using the
<em>back</em> and <em>forward</em> buttons), but this is not guaranteed
to work with all versions of all browsers.
(At the time of writing this it does work with Firefox and Internet
Explorer.)
When a page is opened in a new browser window only the newly opened
window shows adaptation.
The other window will continue to show the previous page
in its "old" state. Thus, as an author you should try to avoid situations
where you really depend on adaptation when the end-user is navigating
through the history or is opening new windows.
</li>
<li>
The <em>link adaptation</em> is performed through the use of
a <em>style sheet</em>. The browser must be configured to accept
colors which the html page requests. With most browsers this is the
default setting.
In this tutorial you will see that links are sometimes <em>blue</em>
and sometimes <em>purple</em>. These colors are determined by the
style sheet, not by the browser's history mechanism.
Links may also be <em>black</em> (actually <em>dark gray</em>)
meaning that according to the adaptive application the user is not
ready to follow them.
You may also see <em>bright red</em> or <em>dark red</em> links;
they point to pages that are not part of the tutorial.
</li>
<li>
WOW! pages can (but need not) have a <em>header</em> and/or
<em>footer</em>,
showing a progress report and access to forms for changing the
user profile, color preferences or password, or to log out.
If this header does not show up when you expect it, it probably
means that the page was not served through WOW! but straight
through the web server. (As a result there is then no adaptation.)
</li>
<li>
WOW! runs on any full and recent implementation of the Java 2 platform.
It is frequently tested on Microsoft Windows (currently XP)
and Linux (mostly Fedora).
Linux is the prefered platform, not just because it is Open Source
like WOW! itself, but also because it is better at multitasking.
Any "plain" PC (or even a laptop computer) will be adequate for a
small WOW! server, resulting in sub-second response times.
</li>
</ul>
<p>
You can now go to the
<a href="welcome" target="_top" class="conditional">main starting page</a>
of this tutorial.
(Alternatively you can just press "reload", because this page will never
be repeated.)
</p>
<object data="../footer.xhtml" type="text/wow">
<p>
<b>Warning:</b>
If you see this text it means you are not viewing the page through
the WOW! system.
</p>
</object>
</html>
