<!DOCTYPE html SYSTEM "/wow/WOWstandard/xhtml1-strict.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/wow/tutorial/tutorial.css" />
<title>WOW! Tutorial</title>
</head>
<body>
<object data="../header.xhtml" type="text/wow">
<p>
<b>Warning:</b>
If you see this text it means you are not viewing the page through
the WOW! system.
</p>
</object>
<h2>Using WOW! with standard XHTML</h2>
<p>
Pages in standard XHTML start with:<br />
<tt>&lt;!DOCTYPE html SYSTEM "/wow/WOWstandard/xhtml1-strict.dtd"&gt;</tt>
</p>
<p>
When using WOW! with standard XHTML you must create pages that
contain a <tt>&lt;head&gt;</tt> and a <tt>&lt;body</tt> part.
(In the XHTML+WOW format you should <em>not</em> have a
<tt>&lt;head&gt;</tt> and a <tt>&lt;body</tt> part as they
are generated automatically by WOW!.)
</p>
<p>
In the <tt>&lt;head&gt;</tt> part you can include a reference
to an external style sheet, like
<tt>&lt;link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" "tutorial.css" /&gt;</tt>.
In the style sheet you can for instance define the
<a href="visibility" class="conditional">presentation style
of text fragments</a>, depending on the <em>visibility</em>
attribute of a concept.
</p>
<p>
Another possible application of using standard XHTML is that
extensions other than the WOW! extension can be used.
You can for instance provide the following HTML tag:<br />
<tt>&lt;html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:t="urn:schemas-microsoft-com:time"&gt;</tt><br />
and then in the <tt>&lt;head&gt;</tt> add the import command<br />
<tt>&lt;?IMPORT namespace="t" implementation="#default#time2"?&gt;</tt><br />
This then allows you to use the HTML+TIME extensions defined by Microsoft,
and closely related to the timing part of the
<a href="http://www.w3.org/AudioVideo/">W3C SMIL</a> standard.
Using these timing extensions it becomes possible to create
(adaptive) multimedia applications in which video fragments
can be played either upon mouse clicks or triggered by a timer
or an offset into other timed objects.
It is beyond the scope of this tutorial to explain the use of
HTML+TIME. Please note that when you use such extensions your
application will no longer be browser-independent. (HTML+TIME currently
works with Internet Explorer and with Realplayer.)
</p>

<object data="../footer.xhtml" type="text/wow">
<p>
<b>Warning:</b>
If you see this text it means you are not viewing the page through
the WOW! system.
</p>
</object>

</body>
</html>
