<!DOCTYPE html SYSTEM "/wow/WOWstandard/xhtml-wowext-1.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<object data="../header.xhtml" type="text/wow">
<p>
<b>Warning:</b>
If you see this text it means you are not viewing the page through
the WOW! system.
</p>
</object>

<h2>Graph Author Templates</h2>

<p>
In the <a href="graphauthor" class="conditional">graph author</a>
tool you can create concepts and concept relationships of different types.
The list of available types is based on templates.
All files for authoring tools can be found in "/author/authorfiles"
(set by the "graphauthorfiles" parameter in the
<a href="wowconfig" class="conditional">WOW! configuration file</a>).
The file "templatelist.txt" lists the concept templates that
exist in the "templates" directory and
the file "crtlist.txt" lists the concept relationship
templates that exist in the "crt" directory.
The graph author checks these lists and downloads the templates.
A <a href="concepttemplate" class="conditional">concept template</a>
defines a structure of attributes, a concept type and unary
concept relationships.
A template consists of two parts (files):
</p>
<ul>
<li>
The <a href="authorfile" class="conditional">file with suffix ".author"</a>
contains definitions used by the graph author to determine
how to display the concept relationships of the given type.
The graph author only needs the information from this file
(and the structure created by the author) to produce its
graph output file.
</li>
<li>
The <a href="wowfile" class="conditional">file with suffix ".wow"</a>
contains definitions for the translation of the concept relationships
of the given type to WOW!
<a href="rules" class="conditional">event-condition-action rules</a>.
The graph author only needs the information from this file
(and the structure created by the author) to produce the
file with concepts and rules that you can also create
using the <a href="concepteditor" class="conditional">concept editor</a>.
</li>
</ul>
<p>
Because of the strict separation of concerns in these two files,
and the output the graph author creates from them,
the ".author" files can also be used without the ".wow" files to
create concept relationship graphs without translation to WOW!,
and the ".wow" files can be used by different authoring tools
to translate concept relationship graphs to WOW! rules without
the graph author.
</p>
<p>
When creating new concepts in the <a href="concepteditor"
class="conditional">Concept Editor</a> a "defaultConcept.xml" file
is used to create an initial set of attributes and rules.
The attributes and rules can of course be changed in the concept editor.
</p>

<object data="../footer.xhtml" type="text/wow">
<p>
<b>Warning:</b>
If you see this text it means you are not viewing the page through
the WOW! system.
</p>
</object>
</html>
