<!DOCTYPE html SYSTEM "/wow/WOWstandard/xhtml1-strict.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
<title>Visibility or Presentation of Text Fragments</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/wow/tutorial/tutorial.css" />
</head>
<body>
<object data="../header.xhtml" type="text/wow">
<p>
<b>Warning:</b>
If you see this text it means you are not viewing the page through
the WOW! system.
</p>
</object>

<h2>Visibility/Presentation of Fragments</h2>

<p>
Sometimes you may wish to conditionally emphasize, deemphasize
or even hide a fragment of text. Instead of conditionally including
different objects in order to obtain this effect, you can control
the presentation of a <tt>&lt;span&gt;</tt> item through the
<tt>visibility</tt> attribute of a concept:
</p>
<ul>
<li>
A fragment is conditionally presented in different ways by putting
a <tt>&lt;span&gt;</tt> tag around it as follows:<br />
<tt>&lt;span id="tutorial.fragmentconcept" class="conditional"&gt;</tt>The presentation style of this sentence may vary.<tt>&lt;/span&gt;</tt><br />
</li>
<li>
The integer attribute <tt>visibility</tt> of the concept <tt>tutorial.fragmentconcept</tt> determines how the text is presented. Currently the values that have a meaning are multiples of 10, between 0 and 100.
</li>
<li>
When the <tt>visibility</tt> is 0 the fragment is not shown at all.
It is included in the page as a comment, so it can be seen when viewing
the html source of the page.
</li>
<li>
When the <tt>visibility</tt> is 10 a <em>tooltip</em> is presented.
The icon for this must be supplied by the application, so you can use
your own favorite icon.
Also, a piece of Javascript code must be placed in a file that is
included in the page:
<br />
<pre>
 function showTip(img, tip)
 { tiptext = document.getElementById(tip);
   tiptext.style.visibility = 'visible';
   tipimg = document.getElementById(img);
   tiptext.style.left = tipimg.offsetLeft + 25;
   teptext.style.top = tipimg.offsetTop;
 }
 function hideTip(tip)
 { tiptext = document.getElementById(tip);
   tiptext.style.visibility = 'hidden';
 }
 </pre>
 </li>
 <li>
 The presentation of other values can be defined in an external
 style sheet. The "conditional" class of the <tt>&lt;span&gt;</tt>
 tag is replaced by a class "cN" where N is the <tt>visibility</tt> value.
(The "c" is added because class values must be strings, not numbers.)
 An example of a possible style sheet is:<br />
<pre>
.c20	{font-size:smaller;}
.c30	{color: #808080; background-color: #EEEEEE;}
.c40	{font-style: normal;}
.c50	{font-size:larger;}
.c60	{font-style: italic;}
.c70	{text-decoration: underline;}
.c80	{text-transform: uppercase;}
.c90	{font-weight: bold;}
.c100	{color: #FFFFFF; background-color: #5F9EA0;}
</pre>
</li>
</ul>
<object data="../footer.xhtml" type="text/wow">
<p>
<b>Warning:</b>
If you see this text it means you are not viewing the page through
the WOW! system.
</p>
</object>
</body>
</html>
