<!DOCTYPE html SYSTEM "/wow/WOWstandard/xhtml-wowext-1.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<object data="../header.xhtml" type="text/wow">
<p>
<b>Warning:</b>
If you see this text it means you are not viewing the page through
the WOW! system.
</p>
</object>
<h1>WOW! Tutorial</h1>

<p>
<strong>CAUTION:</strong>
This file is part of WOW! based on AHA! (Adaptive Hypermedia for All) which is free software (GNU General Public License) developed by Paul De Bra - Eindhoven University of Technology and University. 
Copyright (c) 2006 by Eindhoven University of Technology.
It may be used according to the GNU license of Eindhoven University of Technology
</p>

<p>
Welcome
<if expr="tutorial.installation.knowledge&gt;0"><block>back</block></if>
to the WOW! Tutorial. This adaptive document describes how
to use version 1.0 of WOW!, the Adaptive Hypermedia Education System.
This tutorial consists of the following main parts:
</p>
<ul>
<li>
<a href="installation" class="conditional">Installation instructions</a>.
This section describes how to install WOW! on a Windows or Linux
system, and how to configure it for use with or without the
mySQL database.
<if expr="tutorial.installation.knowledge==0">
<block>
You are advised to study this part first in order to set up your
own local server on which you can experiment with WOW!.
After this step you can opt to either first study WOW! in detail,
or to jump right into the <a href="example" class="conditional">example</a>
that gives you hand-on experience with the creation of an WOW! application.
</block>
</if>
</li>
<li>
Information for and about
<a href="enduser" class="conditional">end-users</a>.
This section describes how the WOW! system uses the user's
browsing behavior to build and maintain a user model,
and how it decides how to adapt the presentation to each
individual user.
</li>
<li>
Information <a href="authoring" class="conditional">for authors</a>,
including how to create the conceptual structure of an adaptive
application, and how to create
<object name="tutorial.adaptationrule" type="text/wow"/> rules
using the different
authoring tools that come with WOW!.
</li>
<li>
Information for
<a href="advanced" class="conditional">system designers</a>
who need to support authors of an WOW! installation and who may
wish to extend WOW!'s built-in functionality.
</li>
<li>
Information on how
<a href="contribute" class="conditional">you can contribute</a>
to the WOW! project by sending us your additions, fixes and suggestions.
</li>
<li>A hands-on <a href="example" class="conditional">example</a>
to aid you in creation of your first WOW! application</li>
</ul>

<object data="../footer.xhtml" type="text/wow">
<p>
<b>Warning:</b>
If you see this text it means you are not viewing the page through
the WOW! system.
</p>
</object>
</html>
