<!DOCTYPE html SYSTEM "/wow/WOWstandard/xhtml-wowext-1.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<object data="../header.xhtml" type="text/wow">
<p>
<b>Warning:</b>
If you see this text it means you are not viewing the page through
the WOW! system.
</p>
</object>

<h2>The WOW! Configuration File</h2>

<p>
Not everything that is configurable in WOW! can be controlled
through the
<a href="firstconfig" class="conditional">configuration menu</a>
for the server manager.
In the directory "WEB-INF" (a standard name for the Tomcat server)
there are two configuration files: web.xml and wowconfig.xml.
The web.xml file is created automatically through the initial
configuration process and should never be changed.
It contains a pointer to the wowconfig.xml file which has
all WOW!-specific parameters. Although it is probably best to leave
all parameters as they are, there may be reasons to change the following
parameters:
</p>
<ul>
<li>
"db host": This is set to "localhost" by default. It can be changed
to separate the machine running the mySQL database from the machine
running Tomcat and the WOW! servlets. Spreading the load may improve
performance. (We have not tried this, as our server (wow.hcmuns.edu.vn)
with dual Athlon MP2000+ is still fast enough for our applications,
including the on-line WOW! tutorial.)
</li>
<li>
"dbname": This is the name of the mySQL database, optionally
created during the initial WOW! configuration.
</li>
<li>
"dbpassword": This is the password for the mySQL database, optionally
created during the initial WOW! configuration.
Please note that this password is stored as cleartext and therefore
the WEB-INF directory or wowconfig.xml file should be kept secure!
</li>
<li>
"XMLROOT": This is the directory used to store the XML files when
no mySQL database is used. As this directory includes a part for
the user model files it may grow quite large. Therefore it may
become necessary to move this directory to a different disk.
(This should also help performance.)
</li>
</ul>

<object data="../footer.xhtml" type="text/wow">
<p>
<b>Warning:</b>
If you see this text it means you are not viewing the page through
the WOW! system.
</p>
</object>
</html>
