<!DOCTYPE html SYSTEM "/wow/WOWstandard/xhtml-wowext-1.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<object data="../header.xhtml" type="text/wow">
<p>
<b>Warning:</b>
If you see this text it means you are not viewing the page through
the WOW! system.
</p>
</object>

<h2>The Graph Author ".wow" Files</h2>

<p>
The ".wow" files are used by the graph author for translating
concept relationships of a given type into WOW!
<a href="rules" class="conditional">event-condition-action rules</a>.
We explain the templates using the examples of <em>knowledge_propagation</em>
and <em>prerequisite</em>. We use these examples because the former
defines a user model update whereas the latter defines a suitability
requirement.
</p>
<p>
The file "knowledge_propagation.wow" is as follows:
<pre>
&lt;?xml version="1.0"?&gt;
&lt;!DOCTYPE wow_relation_type SYSTEM 'wow_relation_type.dtd'&gt;
&lt;wow_relation_type&gt;
    &lt;name&gt;knowledge_propagation&lt;/name&gt;
    &lt;listitems&gt;
        &lt;generateListItem isPropagating="true" location="child.access" &gt;
            &lt;requirement&gt; true &lt;/requirement&gt;
            &lt;trueActions&gt;
                &lt;action combination="DIV_S"&gt;
                    &lt;conceptName&gt; parent &lt;/conceptName&gt;
                    &lt;attributeName&gt; knowledge &lt;/attributeName&gt;
                    &lt;expression&gt;parent.knowledge + (var:DIVIDE * _child.knowledge)&lt;/expression&gt;
                &lt;/action&gt;
            &lt;/trueActions&gt;
        &lt;/generateListItem&gt;
    &lt;/listitems&gt;
&lt;/wow_relation_type&gt;
</pre>
The similarity with the syntax of
<a href="rules" class="conditional">event-condition-action rules</a>
is obvious. The elements that need explaining are:
</p>
<ul>
<li>
"location": the <tt>generateListItem</tt> element contains
a <tt>location</tt> attribute. This indicates to which attribute of
which concept the rule belongs. In the example the location is
<tt>child.access</tt> meaning the <tt>access</tt> attribute of
the <tt>child</tt> (alternatively called <tt>source</tt>) concept.
This is the concept from where the drawn arrow starts.
</li>
<li>
"combination": It is possible to have a value in the action that
depends on different rules that influence the same attribute of the
same concept. <tt>DIV_S</tt> means that the value will be divided
by the number of children or sources of arrows (relationships of
this type) pointing to the same parent (or destination).
Another possibility would be <tt>DIV_D</tt>, meaning that the value
will be divided by the number of parents or destinations of arrows
(relationships of this type) starting from the same child (or source).
</li>
<li>
"var": When a value is preceded by the word "var:" it means that this
value is the default but can be overridden by entering a value for
the concept relationship in the graph author.
</li>
<li>
"DIVIDE": This keyword is used in combination with <tt>DIV_S</tt>
or <tt>DIV_D</tt> to indicate that a factor should be used that depends
on the number of children (or sources), resp. parents (or destinations).
E.g., when there are four concepts supplying knowledge to a concept
and you don't override the value for the knowledge_propagation
relationship the expression <tt>var:DIVIDE</tt> will result in 0.25.
</li>
</ul>
<p>
The file "prerequisite.wow" is:
<pre>
&lt;?xml version="1.0"?&gt;
&lt;!DOCTYPE wow_relation_type SYSTEM 'wow_relation_type.dtd'&gt;
&lt;wow_relation_type&gt;
    &lt;name&gt;prerequisite&lt;/name&gt;
    &lt;listitems&gt;
        &lt;setdefault location="destination.suitability" 
            combination="AND"&gt;source.knowledge &amp;gt; var:0 &lt;/setdefault&gt;
    &lt;/listitems&gt;
&lt;/wow_relation_type&gt;
</pre>
A prerequisite defines a <em>requirement</em> for the destination
(or parent) of the prerequisite relationship.
The example shows that this is done by setting the default value
of the <tt>suitability</tt> attribute of the destination concept.
Because <tt>suitability</tt> is a non-persistent attribute
and the default value is an expression, that expression is
evaluated each time it is needed.
</p>
<p>
When there are different prerequisites thay are combined using the
logical "AND" operator. Requirements set by concept relationships can
be combined with "AND" and "OR" but for the combination of requirements
defined by different types of relationships the combination is
always and automatically taken to be "AND".
</p>
<object data="../footer.xhtml" type="text/wow">
<p>
<b>Warning:</b>
If you see this text it means you are not viewing the page through
the WOW! system.
</p>
</object>
</html>
