<!DOCTYPE html SYSTEM "/wow/WOWstandard/xhtml-wowext-1.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<object data="../header.xhtml" type="text/wow">
<p>
<b>Warning:</b>
If you see this text it means you are not viewing the page through
the WOW! system.
</p>
</object>

<h2>XHTML versus HTML</h2>

<p>
WOW! 1.0 uses pages written in
<a href="http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/">XHTML</a>.
Pages are parsed using an XML parser.
In many cases when an end-user (hopefully you as an author trying
out your application) tries to load a page with an XML syntax error
the browser will display an error message (from the XML parser)
indicating what is wrong with the page. Unfortunately there is
nothing the end-user can do to rectify the problem.
The author of the page has to correct the error,
so as an author you should always check the pages for XML errors.
</p>

<p>
For experienced HTML authors there are a few things you should
know in order to write (mostly) correct XHTML pages that will work
in XHTML browsers as well as older HTML browsers:
</p>
<ul>
<li>
All tags have to be properly nested. In HTML there is automatic ending
of tags, like in the following construct:
<pre>
&lt;ul&gt;
&lt;li&gt; ... &lt;li&gt; ... &lt;li&gt; ... 
&lt;/ul&gt;
</pre>
Where each list item is ended automatically when the next list item
starts or when the whole list ends.
in XHTML you have to explicitly end all tags:
<pre>
&lt;ul&gt;
&lt;li&gt; ... &lt;/li&gt; &lt;li&gt; ... &lt;/li&gt; &lt;li&gt; ... &lt;/li&gt;
&lt;/ul&gt;
</pre>
</li>
<li>
In HTML there are a number of tags that have no end tag,
like
<pre>
&lt;br&gt;
</pre>
In XHTML all tags must be ended. There are two ways to do this:
<pre>
&lt;br&gt;&lt;/br&gt; or &lt;br /&gt;
</pre>
</li>
<li>
Older browsers ignore explicit end tags like <tt>&lt;/br&gt;</tt>
but may get confused by the abbreviated form <tt>&lt;br/&gt;</tt>.
A solution is to add a space between the tag name and the /,
as in <tt>&lt;br /&gt;</tt>.
</li>
</ul>

<p>
Unless you are creating an application for a known audience with
a single known browser it is best to try all pages on several browsers,
including some new ones
(like <a href="http://www.mozilla.org/" target="_blank">Mozilla Firefox</a>)
and some old ones
(like <a href="http://browser.netscape.com/ns8/download/archive47x.jsp"
target="_blank">Netscape
version 4</a>).
</p>

<p>
<b>Note: </b> WOW! can actually handle HTML pages, by using
a converter from HTML to XHTML (called JTidy).
This conversion may not be perfect, but it works for most HTML pages.
</p>

<object data="../footer.xhtml" type="text/wow">
<p>
<b>Warning:</b>
If you see this text it means you are not viewing the page through
the WOW! system.
</p>
</object>
</html>
