<!DOCTYPE html SYSTEM "/wow/WOWstandard/xhtml-wowext-1.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
<title>Creating a Package</title>
</head>
<body>
<object data="../header.xhtml" type="text/wow"/>

<font size="-1">
<b>Trail</b>: Learning the Java Language
<br/>
<b>Lesson</b>: Interfaces and Packages
</font>

<h2>
Creating a Package
</h2>
<blockquote>
<!--Creating a Package-->   
    To create a package, you put a type (class, interface, enum
    or annotation) in it. 
    To do this, you put a <code>package</code> statement at the top 
    of the source file in which the type is defined. 
    For example, the following code appears in the source file <code>Circle.java</code> 
    and puts the <code>Circle</code> class in the <code>graphics</code> 
    package: 
<blockquote><pre>
package graphics;

public class Circle extends Graphic implements Draggable {
    . . .
}
</pre></blockquote>

The <code>Circle</code> class is a public member of the <code>graphics</code> 
    package. 
    <br/><br/>
    You must include a <code>package</code> statement at the top 
    of every source file that defines a class or an interface that 
    is to be a member of the <code>graphics</code> package. So you 
    would also include the statement in <code>Rectangle.java</code> 
    and so on:  
<blockquote><pre>
package graphics;

public class Rectangle extends Graphic implements Draggable {
    . . .
}
</pre></blockquote>
The scope of the <code>package</code> statement is the entire 
    source file, so all classes, interfaces, enums and annotations
    defined in <code>Circle.java</code> and <code>Rectangle.java</code>
    are also members of the <code>graphics</code> 
    package. If you put multiple classes in a single source file, 
    only one may be public, and it must share the name of the source 
    file's base name. 
    Only public package members are accessible from outside the package.

<!--The following was a footnote.-->
<blockquote><hr/><strong>Note: </strong>Some compilers might allow more than one public class per <code>.java</code> 
file. However, we recommend that you use the convention one public 
class per file, because it makes public classes easier to find and 
works for all compilers.
<hr/></blockquote>

    If you do not use a <code>package</code> statement, your type
    ends up in the <i>default package</i>, which is 
    a package that has no name. Generally speaking, the default package 
    is only for small or temporary applications or when you are just 
    beginning development. Otherwise, classes, enums and annotations belong 
    in named packages. 

</blockquote>

<object data="../footer.xhtml" type="text/wow"/>
</body>
</html>
