<!DOCTYPE html SYSTEM "/wow/WOWstandard/xhtml-wowext-1.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
<title>How Will Java Technology Change My Life?</title>
</head>
<body>
<object data="../header.xhtml" type="text/wow"/>

<font size="-1">
<b>Trail</b>: Getting Started
<br/>
<b>Lesson</b>: The Java Technology Introduction
</font>

<h2>How Will Java Technology Change My Life?</h2>

<blockquote>
We can't promise you fame, fortune, or even a job if you learn the Java programming language. Still, it is likely to make your programs better and requires less effort than other languages. We believe that Java technology will help you do the following:

<ul>
<li>
<strong>Get started quickly</strong>:
Although the Java programming language is a powerful object-oriented language, it's easy to learn, especially for programmers already familiar with C or C++.
</li>
<li>
<strong>Write less code</strong>:
Comparisons of program metrics (class counts, method counts, and so on) suggest that a program written in the Java programming language can be four times smaller than the same program in C++.
</li>
<li>
<strong>Write better code</strong>:
The Java programming language encourages good coding practices, and its garbage collection helps you avoid memory leaks. Its object orientation, its JavaBeans component architecture, and its wide-ranging, easily extendible API let you reuse other people's tested code and introduce fewer bugs.
</li>
<li>
<strong>Develop programs more quickly</strong>:
Your development time may be as much as twice as fast versus writing the same program in C++. Why? You write fewer lines of code and it is a simpler programming language than C++.
</li>
<li>
<strong>Avoid platform dependencies</strong>:
You can keep your program portable by avoiding the use of libraries written in other languages. 
</li>
<li>
<strong>Write once, run anywhere</strong>:
Because Java applications are compiled into machine-independent bytecodes, they run consistently on any Java platform.
</li>
<li>
<strong>Distribute software more easily</strong>:
You can upgrade applets easily from a central server. Applets take advantage of the feature of allowing new classes to be loaded "on the fly," without recompiling the entire program.
</li>
</ul>
</blockquote>

<object data="../footer.xhtml" type="text/wow"/>
</body>
</html>
