<!DOCTYPE html SYSTEM "/wow/WOWstandard/xhtml-wowext-1.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
<title>Implementing an Interface</title>
</head>
<body>
<object data="../header.xhtml" type="text/wow"/>

<font size="-1">
<b>Trail</b>: Learning the Java Language
<br/>
<b>Lesson</b>: Interfaces and Packages
</font>

<h2>
Implementing an Interface
</h2>
<blockquote>
<p>An interface defines a protocol of behavior. A class that implements 
an interface adheres to the protocol defined by that interface. 
To declare a class that implements an interface, include an <code>implements</code> 
clause in the class declaration. Your class can implement more 
than one interface (the Java platform supports multiple inheritance 
for interfaces), so the <code>implements</code> keyword is followed  
by a comma-separated list of the interfaces implemented by the 
class. 
</p>
<blockquote><hr/><strong>By Convention: </strong>The <code>implements</code>
clause follows the <code>extends</code> clause, if it exists. 
<hr/></blockquote>

<p>Here's a partial example of an applet that implements the <code>StockWatcher</code>
interface:
</p>

<blockquote><pre>
public class StockApplet extends Applet
                         <B>implements StockWatcher</B> {

    public void valueChanged(TickerSymbol tickerSymbol,
                             BigDecimal newValue) {
        switch (tickerSymbol) {
            case SUNW:
                ...
                break;
            case ORCL:
                ...
                break;
            case CSCO:
                ...
                break;
            default:
                // handle unknown stocks
                ...
                break;
        }
    }
}
</pre></blockquote>

When a class implements an interface, it is essentially signing 
a contract. Either the class must implement all the methods declared 
in the interface and its superinterfaces, or the class must be 
declared <code>abstract</code>. The method signature &#151; the name and 
the number and type of arguments &#151; in the class must match the method 
signature as it appears in the interface. The <code>StockApplet</code> 
implements the <code>StockWatcher</code> interface, so the applet 
provides an implementation for the <code>valueChanged</code> method. 
The method ostensibly updates the applets display or otherwise 
uses this information. 

</blockquote>

<object data="../footer.xhtml" type="text/wow"/>
</body>
</html>
