<!DOCTYPE html SYSTEM "/wow/WOWstandard/xhtml-wowext-1.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
<title>Manipulating Strings</title>
</head>
<body>
<object data="../header.xhtml" type="text/wow"/>

<font size="-1">
<b>Trail</b>: Learning the Java Language
<br/>
<b>Lesson</b>: Object Basics and Simple Data Objects
</font>

<h2>Manipulating Strings</h2>
<blockquote>
The <code>String</code> class has several methods that appear to modify a string. Of course, strings can't be modified, so what these methods really do is create and return a second string that contains the result, as indicated in the following table.

<p>
<table border="1" cellpadding="4" cellspacing="3">
<caption>Methods in the <code>String</code> Class for Manipulating Strings</caption>
<tr>
<th width="30%">Method</th><th>Description</th>
</tr>

<tr>
<td>
<code>
String concat(String)
</code>
</td>
<td>
Concatenates the String argument to the end of this string. If the length of the argument is 0, the original string object is returned.
</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td>
<code>
String replace(char, char)
</code>
</td>
<td>
Replaces all occurrences of the character specified as the first argument with the character specified as the second argument. If no replacements are necessary, the original string object is returned.
</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td>
<code>
String trim()
</code>
</td>
<td>
Removes white space from both ends of this string.
</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td>
<code>
String toLowerCase()
<br/>
String toUpperCase()
</code>
</td>
<td>
Converts this string to lower- or uppercase. If no conversions are necessary, these methods return the original string.
</td>
</tr>

</table>
</p>

Here's a small program, <code>BostonAccentDemo</code>, that uses the <code>replace</code> method to translate a string into the Bostonian dialect:
<blockquote><pre>
// This example demonstrates the use of the replace method
// in the String class.

public class BostonAccentDemo {
    private static void bostonAccent(String sentence) {
        char r = 'r'; 
        char h = 'h'; 
        String translatedSentence = sentence.replace(r, h);
        System.out.println(translatedSentence);
    }
    
    public static void main(String[] args) {
        String translateThis = 
           &quot;Park the car in Harvard yard.&quot;;
        bostonAccent(translateThis);
    }
}
</pre></blockquote>

The <code>replace</code> method switches all the r's to h's in the <code>sentence</code> string so that the output of this program is:

<blockquote><pre>
Pahk the cah in Hahvahd yahd.
</pre></blockquote>

</blockquote>

<object data="../footer.xhtml" type="text/wow"/>
</body>
</html>
