<!DOCTYPE html SYSTEM "/wow/WOWstandard/xhtml-wowext-1.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
<title>Summary of Numbers</title>
</head>
<body>
<object data="../header.xhtml" type="text/wow"/>

<font size="-1">
<b>Trail</b>: Learning the Java Language
<br/>
<b>Lesson</b>: Object Basics and Simple Data Objects
</font>

<h2>Summary of Numbers</h2>
<blockquote>

You use an instance of one of the <code>Number</code> classes&#8212;<code>Byte</code>, <code>Double</code>, <code>Float</code>, <code>Integer</code>, <code>Long</code>, and <code>Short</code>&#8212;to contain a number of primitive type. You can also use <code>BigInteger</code> and <code>BigDecimal</code> for arbitrary-precision numbers.
<br/><br/>
The <code>Number</code> classes include class methods and constants, which are useful in a variety of ways. The <code>MIN_VALUE</code> and <code>MAX_VALUE</code> constants contain the smallest and largest values that can be contained by an object of that type. The <code>byteValue</code>, <code>shortValue</code>, and similar methods convert one numeric type to another. The <code>valueOf</code> method converts a string to a number, and the <code>toString</code> method converts a number to a string.
<br/><br/>
To format a number to display to an end user, you use the <code>NumberFormat</code> class in the <code>java.text</code> package. When using <code>NumberFormat</code>, you can get a default format for decimal numbers, percentages, or currency. Or, you can design a custom format using patterns. If you are using JDK 5.0 or later, the <code>printf</code> facility provides yet another means for formatting your output.
<br/><br/>
The <code>Math</code> class contains a variety of class methods for performing mathematical functions. This class includes the trigonometric functions, such as computing sine, cosine, and so on. <code>Math</code> also includes functions for logarithm calculations, as well as basic arithmetic functions, such as rounding. Finally, <code>Math</code> contains a method, <code>random</code>, for generating random numbers.

</blockquote>

<object data="../footer.xhtml" type="text/wow"/>
</body>
</html>
