<!DOCTYPE html SYSTEM "/wow/WOWstandard/xhtml-wowext-1.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<object data="../../header.xhtml" type="text/wow">
<p>
<b>Warning:</b>
If you see this text it means you are not viewing the page through
the WOW! system.
</p>
</object>

<h2>WOW! for End-Users</h2>

<p>
As an end-user there are only a few things you have to know
about the WOW! system. How the adaptation works in an application
largely depends on the
<a href="rules.xhtml" class="conditional">adaptation rules</a>
<if expr="tutorial.rules.knowledge&gt;50">
<block>
(event-condition-action rules)
</block>
</if>
an author creates, so we concentrate
here on aspects that are application independent.
</p>

<ul>
<li>
In order for WOW! to perform adaptation each user must be known
through a unique <em>identity</em>, which is chosen in the
registration form. Anonymous users are assigned a unique
randomly chosen identity. That identity is remembered by the
browser through the "cookie" mechanism. You can restart an
anonymous session only from the same machine using the same browser.
Non-anonymous (normal) users have a <em>password</em> to prevent
unauthorized use of their login. An application may offer a
form (called "password" in this tutorial) to let you change the password.
</li>
<li>
One WOW! server can contain several applications. You can reuse
your identity when you go from one application to another.
You can also return to the first application or go back and forth.
However, you should not try to use two applications simultaneously
from different browsers or browser windows, because WOW! maintains
only one session per user at a time. Using multiple applications
simultaneously can lead to unexpected results (like the name of
one application being displayed in the other application,
or the wrong background image on pages).
</li>
<li>
WOW! registers every page access (every click on a link anchor).
A set of rules (written by the author) determines how a
<a href="usermodel.xhtml" class="conditional">user model</a> is updated.
This user model consists of
<em>concepts</em> with <em>attributes</em>. There may (or may not)
be forms in the application that let you inspect and change
certain attributes of certain concepts.
This tutorial has a standard form ("knowledge of tutorial")
that lets you change the knowledge value of certain concepts.
(The author determines which concepts
have a user-changeable knowledge value.)
</li>
<li>
The
<if expr="tutorial.rules.knowledge&gt;50">
<block>
<a href="rules.xhtml" class="conditional">event-condition-action rules</a>
</block>
<block>
<a href="rules.xhtml" class="conditional">adaptation rules</a>
</block>
</if>
an author writes determine whether pages are considered <em>suitable</em>.
The presentation of a link anchor depends on the suitability
of the page it links to. The presentation can be:
<ul>
<li>
GOOD: the link points to a suitable page you have not visited before.
The standard color for such link anchors is blue.
</li>
<li>
NEUTRAL: the link points to a suitable page you have visited before.
The standard color for such link anchors is purple.
</li>
<li>
BAD: the link points to an unsuitable page. Whether or not you visited
this page before the standard color for such link anchors is
(almost) black.
</li>
</ul>
An application may offer a form through which you can change this
color scheme. (This tutorial offers such a form: "link colors").<br />
Each time you visit a page the suitability of all the links on that
page is determined. As a result the set of links you see may differ
each time.
</li>
<li>
<a href="pages.xhtml" class="conditional">Pages</a>
may also contain rules (or conditions) to determine the suitability of
<a href="fragments.xhtml" class="conditional">fragments</a>
(like sentences or paragraphs).
Each time you visit a page the suitability of each fragment is
determined. As a result the information you see on the page
may differ each time.
</li>
<li>
When you navigate through your browser's history (using the
<em>back</em> and <em>forward</em> buttons) the browser may not request the
pages you revisit from the WOW! server but may use cached versions.
This results in pages being shown exactly as you saw them before,
and not in the "new" form that would correspond to the most recent
user model. When in doubt you can use the browser's <em>reload</em>
function to retrieve a newly adapted page.
</li>
<li>
Apart from information pages an WOW! application may contain
<em>forms</em> that let you change settings in your
<a href="usermodel.xhtml" class="conditional">user model</a>.
There can also be forms that are intended as
<a href="multiple-choice.xhtml" class="conditional">multiple-choice tests</a>.
We have included an
<!--a href="../test/tutorial.xml|DoTest">old example test</a-->

<a href="testtutorial_tutorial_C_activity.xml|DoAppletTest"> example test</a>,  

here<if expr="tutorial.tutorial.knowledge&lt;70">
<block>
(but you probably need to study the tutorial further
in order to answer the questions correctly)
</block></if>.
</li>
</ul>

<object data="../footer.xml" type="text/xml">
<p>
<b>Warning:</b>
If you see this text it means you are not viewing the page through
the WOW! system.
</p>
</object>
</html>
